in the previous video we gave a
mathematical definition in the cost
function in this video let's look at
some examples to get better intuition
about what the cost function is doing
and why we want to use it to recap here
some we had last time we want to fit a
straight line to our data so we had this
form of the hypothesis with these
parameters theta 0 and theta 1 and with
different choices of the parameters we
end up with different straight line fits
to the data
each event like so and there's a cost
function and that was our optimization
objective for this video in order to
better visualize the cost function J I'm
going to work with a simplified
hypothesis function like that shown on
the right so I'm going to use my
simplified hypothesis which is just
theta 1 times X you can if you want to
think of this as setting the parameter
theta 0 equal to 0 so I have only one
parameter theta 1 and my cost function
is similar to before except that now H
of X that is now equal to just ADA 1
times X and I have only one parameter
theta one and so my optimization
objective is the minimize J of theta 1
in pictures what this means is that if
theta 0 equals 0 that corresponds to
choosing only hypothesis functions that
pass through the origin that pass
through the point 0 0 using the
simplified definition of hypothesis and
cost function let's try to understand
the cost function concept better it
turns out the two key functions we want
to understand the first is the
hypothesis function the second is the
cost function so notice that the
hypothesis right H of X for a fixed
value of theta 1 this is a function of X
so the hypothesis is a function of what
is the size of the house X and contrast
the cost function J that's a function of
the parameter theta 1 which controls the
slope of the straight line let's plot
these functions and try to understand
them both better
let's start with the hypothesis on the
left let's say here's my training set
with three points at 1 1 2 2 & 3 3 let's
pick a value of theta one so one set of
theta one equals one and if that's my
choice for theta one then my hypothesis
is going to look like this straight line
over here okay and I want point out when
I'm plotting my hypothesis function my
x-axis my horizontal axis is labeled
axes label you know size of the holes
over here now I've temporarily set theta
1 equals 1 what I want to do is figure
out you know what is J of theta one when
theta 1 equals 1 so let's go ahead and
compute what the cost function is for
the value 1 well as usual my cost
function is defined as follows write
some from some of my training set of
this usual squared error term and this
is therefore equal to this of theta 1 X
I - why I and if you simplify this turns
out to be that 0 squared plus 0 squared
is 0 squared which is of course just
equal to 0 now inside the cost function
it turns out each of these terms here is
equal to 0 because for the specific
training set I have for my Damini
training examples are 1 1 2 2 3 3 if
theta 1 is equal to 1 then you know H of
X where H of X I is equal to Y I exactly
right is better right and so H of X
minus y each of these terms is equal to
0 which is why I find that J of 1 is
equal to 0 so we now know that J of 1 is
equal to 0 let's plot that what I'm
going to do on the right is plot my cost
function J and notice because my cost
function
function of my parameter theta one when
I plot my cost function the horizontal
axis is now labeled with theta one so I
have J of one is equals zero so let's go
ahead and plot that you can end up with
an x over there now let's look at some
other examples theta one can take on a
range of different values right so theta
one can take on your negative values
zero positive values so what if theta
one is equal to zero point five what
happens then let's go ahead and plot
that I'm now going to set theta one
equals zero point five and in that case
my hypothesis now looks like this as a
line with slope equals to 0.5 and let's
compute J of 0.5 so that is going to be
1 over 2m of my usual cost function it
turns out that the cost function is
going to be the sum of squared values of
the height of this line plus the summer
squared of the height of that line plus
the summer square of the height of that
line right because this is this vertical
distance that's the difference between
you know why I and the predicted value H
of X I right so the first example is
going to open 5 minus 1 squared because
my hypothesis predicted 0.5 whereas the
actual value was 1 so my second example
I get 1 minus 2 squared because my
hypothesis predicted 1 but the actual
housing price was 2 and then finally
plus 1.5 minus 3 squared and so that's
equal to 1 over 2 times 3 because my
training set size I have three training
examples and then that's times
simplifying within the parentheses is
3.5 so that's 3.5 over 6 which is about
0.6
to eight so now we know that J of 0.5 is
about 0.68 let's go and plot that I
always used to be mapper does actually
open five eight so I'm going to plot
that which is maybe about over there
okay now let's do one more
how about if theta one is equal to zero
what is J of zero equal to it turns out
that if theta one is equal to zero then
H of X is just equal to you know this
flat line right there just goes
horizontally like this and so measuring
the errors we have that J of zero is
equal to one over 2m times 1 squared
plus 2 squared plus three squared which
is 1/6 times 14 which is about two point
three so let's go ahead and plot that as
well you end up with a value around 2.3
and of course we can keep on doing this
for other values of theta one it turns
out that so you can have your negative
values of theta one as well so if theta
one is negative then H of X would be
equal to say minus 0.5 times X right if
theta one is minus 0.5 and so that
corresponds to a hypothesis you know
with a slope of negative 0.5 and you can
actually keep on computing these errors
this turns out to be for 0.5 it turns
out to really high ever it works out to
be something like five point two five
and so on and the different values of
theta one you can compute these things
right turns out the computer range of
values you get something like that
and by computing the range of values you
can actually slowly trace out
what this function J of theta looks like
and that's what J of theta is to recap
for each value of theta one right each
value of theta one corresponds to a
different hypothesis or to a different
straight line fit on the left and for
each value of theta one we could then
derive a different value of J of theta
one and for example you know theta one
equals one corresponding to this
straight line fit through the data
whereas theta one equals 0.5 this point
shown in magenta responded to maybe that
line and theta one equals zero which
will show in blue that corresponds to
this horizontal line right so if we each
value of theta one we wound up with a
different value of J of theta one and we
could then use this to trace out the
spot on the right now you remember the
optimization objective for our learning
algorithm is we want to choose the value
of theta one that minimizes J of theta
one right this was our objective
function for linear regression well
looking at this curve the value that
minimizes J of theta one is you know
theta one equals to one and lo and
behold that is indeed the best possible
straight line fit through our data by
setting theta one equals one and just
for this particular training set we
actually end up fitting it perfectly and
that's why minimizing J of theta one
corresponds to finding a straight line
that fits the data well so to wrap up in
this video we looked at some plots to
understand the cost function to do so we
simplify the algorithm so that it had
only one parameter theta one and we set
the parameters theta zero to zero in the
next video we'll go back to the original
problem for me
and look at some visualizations
involving both theta 0 and theta 1 that
is without setting theta 0 0 and
hopefully that would give you an even
better sense of what the cost function J
is doing in the original linear
regression formulation